README.md, before:

Experimental merlin-lsp build for OCaml 4.02, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08
==============================================================

**This is a total experiment & not even remotely ready yet!**

This uses [esy](https://esy.sh) for dependency management & OCaml version
switching.

Quickstart
----------

```bash
  $ npm i -g esy@0.5.8 # skip if already installed
  $ esy @ocaml-4.02 i
  $ esy @ocaml-4.02 dune build -p merlin-lsp
  $ esy @ocaml-4.06 i
  $ esy @ocaml-4.06 dune build -p merlin-lsp
  $ esy @ocaml-4.07 i
  $ esy @ocaml-4.07 dune build -p merlin-lsp
  $ esy @ocaml-4.08 i
  $ esy @ocaml-4.08 dune build -p merlin-lsp
```

Hacks
-----

This repository contains bunch of hacks/additions to be resolved, specifically:

- `[@@deriving]` was replaced with `[@@deriving_inline]` and code was generated
  using OCaml 4.07
- [ppx_yojson_conv.runtime-lib](https://github.com/janestreet/ppx_yojson_conv/blob/master/runtime-lib) is vendored in `ppx_yojson_conv_lib`/`Ppx_yojson_conv_lib.opam`
- the point above is only needed for **4.02**
- the `preprocess` stanza is removed from the `src/lsp/dune`, so there is no
  way to auto-generate needed code at the moment (perhaps to be resolved by the
  conditional compilation)
- few fixes through out the code for backward compatibility (`String.equals`
  vs. `String.compare`)
- `result` library & `-open Result` is used for backward compatibility as well



![merlin completion in vim](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/vim_complete.png)

[Merlin](https://ocaml.github.io/merlin/) is an editor service that provides modern IDE features for OCaml.

Emacs and Vim support is provided out-of-the-box. External contributors added support for Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text and Atom.

Easy installation with Opam
===========================

If you have a working [Opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/) installation, Merlin is only two commands away:

```shell
opam install merlin
opam user-setup install
```

[opam-user-setup](https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam-user-setup) takes care of configuring Emacs and Vim to make best use of your current install.

You can also [configure the editor](#editor-setup) yourself, if you prefer.

Manually building and installing Merlin
=======================================

Compilation
-----------

Dependencies: ocaml >= 4.02.3, ocamlfind, yojson, dune.

```shell
dune build -p merlin
```

Note: if you want to work on merlin, you'll want to avoid the `-p merlin`, to
build in dev mode, with some extra warnings enabled. In that case you'll also
need an extra dependency: menhir.

Installation
------------

If you haven't encountered any errors in the previous step, just run:

    $ dune install -p merlin

You can pass an explicit prefix to dune, using `--prefix`. It defaults to
your current opam switch.

Editor setup
============

To setup Emacs and Vim, you need to instruct them to run the appropriate script when an OCaml file is opened.

In the rest of the document, \<SHARE\_DIR\> refers to the directory where Merlin data files are installed.

It will usually be:  
- printed by the command `opam config var share`, if you used opam  
- "\<prefix\>/share" if you explicitly specified a prefix when configuring Merlin

### Vim setup

Makes sure that ocamlmerlin binary can be found in PATH.

The only setup needed is to have the following directory in vim runtime path (append this to your .vimrc):

    :set rtp+=<SHARE_DIR>/merlin/vim

The default configuration can be seen in:

    <SHARE_DIR>/merlin/vim/plugin/merlin.vim

After adding merlin to vim runtime path, you will probably want to run `:helptags <SHARE_DIR>/merlin/vim/doc` to register Merlin documentation inside vim.

A more comprehensive documentation can be found on the [vim-from-scratch wiki](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/vim-from-scratch).

### Emacs setup

Merlin comes with an emacs library (file: emacs/merlin.el) that implements a minor-mode that is supposed to be used on top of tuareg-mode.

All you need to do is add the following to your .emacs:

```emacs
(push "<SHARE_DIR>/emacs/site-lisp" load-path) ; directory containing merlin.el
(setq merlin-command "<BIN_DIR>/ocamlmerlin")  ; needed only if ocamlmerlin not already in your PATH
(autoload 'merlin-mode "merlin" "Merlin mode" t)
(add-hook 'tuareg-mode-hook 'merlin-mode)
(add-hook 'caml-mode-hook 'merlin-mode)
```

`merlin-mode` will make use of `auto-complete-mode` (available by package.el and the MELPA repository) if it is installed.

A more comprehensive documentation can be found on the [emacs-from-scratch wiki](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/emacs-from-scratch).

### Other editors

The wiki also contains pages for:  
- [Acme](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/acme-from-scratch)  
- [Atom](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/atom-from-scratch)  
- [Spacemacs](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/spacemacs-from-scratch)

External contributors have implemented modes for more editors:  
* [Visual Studio Code](https://github.com/hackwaly/vscode-ocaml)  
* [Sublime Text 3](https://github.com/cynddl/sublime-text-merlin)  
* [ocaml-merlin package for Atom](https://atom.io/packages/ocaml-merlin)  
* [nuclide for Atom](https://nuclide.io/) includes Merlin support

Next steps
==========

To use Merlin with a multi-file project, it is necessary to have a [.merlin](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/project-configuration) file.

Read more in the [wiki](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki) to learn how to make full use of Merlin in your projects.

Development of Merlin
=====================
 
Most of the development happens through the [github page](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin).

The [mailing list](https://lists.forge.ocamlcore.org/cgi-bin/listinfo/merlin-discuss) welcomes general questions and discussions.

Merlin Labels
-------------

[Area/Emacs](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Area%2FEmacs): Related to Emacs

[Area/Vim](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Area%2FVim): Related to Vim

[Kind/Bug](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Kind%2FBug): This issue describes a problem

[Kind/Docs](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Kind%2FDocs): This issue describes a documentation change

[Kind/Feature-Request](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Kind%2FFeature-request): Solving this issue requires implementing a new feature

[Kind/To-discuss](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Kind%2FTo-discuss): Discussion needed to converge on a solution; often aesthetic. See mailing list for discussion

[Status/0-More-info-needed](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F0-More-info-needed): More information is needed before this issue can be triaged

[Status/0-Triage](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F0-Triage): This issue needs triaging

[Status/1-Acknowledged](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F1-Acknowledged): This issue has been triaged and is being investigated

[Status/2-Regression](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F2-Regression): Known workaround to be applied and tested

[Status/3-Fixed-need-test](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F3-Fixed-need-test): This issue has been fixed and needs checking

[Status/4-Fixed](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F4-Fixed): This issue has been fixed!

[Status/5-Awaiting-feedback](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F5-Awaiting-feedback): This issue requires feedback on a previous fix

You can see current areas of development in our [Merlin Project Roadmaps](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/projects) that we keep up to date.

Contributing to Merlin
----------------------

Merlin needs your help and contributions!

### Reporting Issues

When you encounter an issue, please report it with as much detail as possible. A thorough bug report is always appreciated :)

Check that our issue database doesn't already include that problem/suggestion. You can click "subscribe" on issues to follow their progress and updates.

When reporting issues, please include:  
- steps to reproduce the problem, if possible with some code triggering the issue,  
- version of the tools you are using: operating system, editor, OCaml.

Try to be as specific as possible:  
- avoid generic phrasing such as "doesn't work", explain why it is not working (editor is freezing, you got an error message, the answer is not what was expected, ...)  
- include the content of error messages.

If it seems relevant, also include information about your development environment:  
- the Opam version and switch in use,  
- other toolchains involved (OCaml flavors, cygwin, C compiler, shell, ...),  
- how the editor was setup.

### Pull Requests

Found a bug and know how to fix it? Or have a feature you can implement directly? We appreciate pull requests to improve Merlin, and any significant fix should start life as an issue first.

### Documentation and wiki

Help is greatly appreciated, the wiki needs love.

If the wiki didn't cover a topic and you found out the answer, updating the page or pointing out the issue will be very useful for future users.

### Discussing with other Merlin users and contributors

Together with commenting on issues with direct feedback and relevant information, we use the [mailing list](https://lists.forge.ocamlcore.org/cgi-bin/listinfo/merlin-discuss) to discuss ideas and current designs/implementations. User input helps us to converge on solutions, especially those for aesthetic and user-oriented topics.

List of Contributors
--------------------

We would like to thank all people who contributed to Merlin.

Main collaborators:
* [Frédéric Bour](https://github.com/let-def), main developer
* [Thomas Refis](https://github.com/trefis), main developer
* [Gemma Gordon](https://github.com/GemmaG), project manager
* [Simon Castellan](https://github.com/asmanur), contributed the initial Emacs mode

Contributors:
* [Andrew Noyes](https://github.com/atn34)
* [Andrey Popp](https://github.com/andreypopp)
* [Anil Madhavapeddy](https://github.com/avsm)
* [Anton Bachin](https://github.com/aantron)
* [Armaël Guéneau](https://github.com/Armael)
* [Arthur Wendling](https://github.com/art-w)
* [Benjamin San Souci](https://github.com/bsansouci)
* [Bernhard Schommer](https://github.com/bschommer)
* [Bobby Priambodo](https://github.com/bobbypriambodo)
* [Bryan Phelps](https://github.com/bryphe)
* [Chris Konstad](https://github.com/chriskonstad)
* [Christopher Reichert](https://github.com/creichert)
* [Christophe Troestler](https://github.com/Chris00)
* [David Allsopp](https://github.com/dra27)
* [Fabian Hemmer](https://github.com/copy)
* [Fourchaux](https://github.com/Fourchaux)
* [Gabriel Scherer](https://github.com/gasche)
* [Geoff Gole](https://github.com/gsg)
* [Gerd Stolpmann](https://github.com/gerdstolpmann)
* [Gregory Nisbet](https://github.com/gregory-nisbet)
* [Jacob Bass](https://github.com/bassjacob)
* [Jacques-Pascal Deplaix](https://github.com/jpdeplaix)
* [Jah Rehders](https://github.com/sheijk)
* [Jason Staten](https://github.com/statianzo)
* [Jochen Bartl](https://github.com/verbosemode)
* [Jordan Walke](https://github.com/jordwalke)
* [Keigo Imai](https://github.com/keigoi)
* [Leandro Ostera](https://github.com/ostera)
* [Leo White](https://github.com/lpw25])
* [Madroach](https://github.com/madroach)
* [Malcolm Matalka](https://github.com/orbitz)
* [Marc Weber](https://github.com/MarcWeber)
* [Mario Rodas](https://github.com/marsam)
* [Markus Mottl](https://github.com/mmottl)
* [Milo Davis](https://github.com/MiloDavis)
* [Nick Borden](https://github.com/hcwndbyw)
* [Nicolás Ojeda Bar](https://github.com/nojb)
* [Olivier Andrieu](https://github.com/oandrieu)
* [Philipp Haselwarter](https://github.com/haselwarter)
* [Pierre Chambart](https://github.com/chambart)
* [Raman Varabets](https://github.com/cyberhuman)
* [Raphaël Proust](https://github.com/raphael-proust)
* [Ronan Le Hy](https://github.com/lehy-probayes) [(2)](https://github.com/lehy)
* [Rudi Grinberg](https://github.com/rgrinberg)
* [Steve Purcell](https://github.com/purcell)
* [Syohei Yoshida](https://github.com/syohex)
* ["tddsg"](https://github.com/tddsg)
* [Tomasz Kołodziejski](https://github.com/neojski)
* [Velichko Vsevolod](https://github.com/torkve)
* [Vincent / Twinside](https://github.com/Twinside)
* [Xavier Guérin](https://github.com/xguerin)
* [Ximin Luo](https://github.com/infinity0)
* [Yotam Barnoy](https://github.com/bluddy)

### Sponsoring and donations

We would like to thank [Jane Street](https://www.janestreet.com) for sponsoring and [OCaml Labs](https://github.com/ocamllabs) for providing support and management.

And many thanks to our [Bountysource](https://www.bountysource.com/teams/the-lambda-church/backers) backers.

### Other acknowledgements

Distribution and configuration:
* [Louis Gesbert](https://github.com/AltGr), [opam-user-setup](https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam-user-setup), out-of-the-box setup for Vim and Emacs
* [Edgar Aroutinian](https://github.com/fxfactorial), [ocaml-starterkit](https://github.com/fxfactorial/ocaml-starterkit), collection of tools for beginners in OCaml

Support for other editors:
* [Hackwaly](https://github.com/hackwaly), [Visual Studio Code](https://github.com/hackwaly/vscode-ocaml)
* [Luc Rocher](https://github.com/cynddl), [Sublime Text 3](https://github.com/cynddl/sublime-text-merlin)
* [Pieter Goetschalckx](https://github.com/314eter), [ocaml-merlin package for Atom](https://atom.io/packages/ocaml-merlin)
* various contributors, [nuclide package for Atom](https://nuclide.io/)

Commit message:

add `@lint` and fic description

README.md, after:

Experimental merlin-lsp build for OCaml 4.02, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08
==============================================================

**This is a total experiment & not even remotely ready yet!**

This uses [esy](https://esy.sh) for dependency management & OCaml version
switching.

The main idea behind these modifications is using `ppx_yojson_conv` and
`[@@deriving_inline yojson]` instead of `[@@deriving yojson]`. This permits us
to pre-generate the required converters in development using the newer OCaml
version (4.07 or 4.08) and the build the code as is using the older ones (4.02 & 4.03).

Quickstart
----------

```bash
  $ npm i -g esy@0.5.8 # skip if already installed
  $ esy @ocaml-4.08 i
  $ esy @ocaml-4.08 dune build @lint --auto-promote -p merlin-lsp # generate converters in development
  $ # build them all!
  $ esy @ocaml-4.02 i
  $ esy @ocaml-4.02 dune build -p merlin-lsp
  $ esy @ocaml-4.06 i
  $ esy @ocaml-4.06 dune build -p merlin-lsp
  $ esy @ocaml-4.07 i
  $ esy @ocaml-4.07 dune build -p merlin-lsp
  $ esy @ocaml-4.08 i
  $ esy @ocaml-4.08 dune build -p merlin-lsp
```

Open Questions
--------------

- Currently
  [ppx_yojson_conv.runtime-lib](https://github.com/janestreet/ppx_yojson_conv/blob/master/runtime-lib)
  is vendored in this repo as `ppx_yojson_conv_lib`/`Ppx_yojson_conv_lib.opam`.
  This is only needed for **4.02** & **4.03** since we cannot afford normal
  `ppx_yojson_conv` dependency because of the `ocaml >=4.04` requirement. What
  would be the proper/idiomatic way of resolving this?



![merlin completion in vim](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/vim_complete.png)

[Merlin](https://ocaml.github.io/merlin/) is an editor service that provides modern IDE features for OCaml.

Emacs and Vim support is provided out-of-the-box. External contributors added support for Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text and Atom.

Easy installation with Opam
===========================

If you have a working [Opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/) installation, Merlin is only two commands away:

```shell
opam install merlin
opam user-setup install
```

[opam-user-setup](https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam-user-setup) takes care of configuring Emacs and Vim to make best use of your current install.

You can also [configure the editor](#editor-setup) yourself, if you prefer.

Manually building and installing Merlin
=======================================

Compilation
-----------

Dependencies: ocaml >= 4.02.3, ocamlfind, yojson, dune.

```shell
dune build -p merlin
```

Note: if you want to work on merlin, you'll want to avoid the `-p merlin`, to
build in dev mode, with some extra warnings enabled. In that case you'll also
need an extra dependency: menhir.

Installation
------------

If you haven't encountered any errors in the previous step, just run:

    $ dune install -p merlin

You can pass an explicit prefix to dune, using `--prefix`. It defaults to
your current opam switch.

Editor setup
============

To setup Emacs and Vim, you need to instruct them to run the appropriate script when an OCaml file is opened.

In the rest of the document, \<SHARE\_DIR\> refers to the directory where Merlin data files are installed.

It will usually be:  
- printed by the command `opam config var share`, if you used opam  
- "\<prefix\>/share" if you explicitly specified a prefix when configuring Merlin

### Vim setup

Makes sure that ocamlmerlin binary can be found in PATH.

The only setup needed is to have the following directory in vim runtime path (append this to your .vimrc):

    :set rtp+=<SHARE_DIR>/merlin/vim

The default configuration can be seen in:

    <SHARE_DIR>/merlin/vim/plugin/merlin.vim

After adding merlin to vim runtime path, you will probably want to run `:helptags <SHARE_DIR>/merlin/vim/doc` to register Merlin documentation inside vim.

A more comprehensive documentation can be found on the [vim-from-scratch wiki](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/vim-from-scratch).

### Emacs setup

Merlin comes with an emacs library (file: emacs/merlin.el) that implements a minor-mode that is supposed to be used on top of tuareg-mode.

All you need to do is add the following to your .emacs:

```emacs
(push "<SHARE_DIR>/emacs/site-lisp" load-path) ; directory containing merlin.el
(setq merlin-command "<BIN_DIR>/ocamlmerlin")  ; needed only if ocamlmerlin not already in your PATH
(autoload 'merlin-mode "merlin" "Merlin mode" t)
(add-hook 'tuareg-mode-hook 'merlin-mode)
(add-hook 'caml-mode-hook 'merlin-mode)
```

`merlin-mode` will make use of `auto-complete-mode` (available by package.el and the MELPA repository) if it is installed.

A more comprehensive documentation can be found on the [emacs-from-scratch wiki](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/emacs-from-scratch).

### Other editors

The wiki also contains pages for:  
- [Acme](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/acme-from-scratch)  
- [Atom](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/atom-from-scratch)  
- [Spacemacs](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/spacemacs-from-scratch)

External contributors have implemented modes for more editors:  
* [Visual Studio Code](https://github.com/hackwaly/vscode-ocaml)  
* [Sublime Text 3](https://github.com/cynddl/sublime-text-merlin)  
* [ocaml-merlin package for Atom](https://atom.io/packages/ocaml-merlin)  
* [nuclide for Atom](https://nuclide.io/) includes Merlin support

Next steps
==========

To use Merlin with a multi-file project, it is necessary to have a [.merlin](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki/project-configuration) file.

Read more in the [wiki](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/wiki) to learn how to make full use of Merlin in your projects.

Development of Merlin
=====================
 
Most of the development happens through the [github page](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin).

The [mailing list](https://lists.forge.ocamlcore.org/cgi-bin/listinfo/merlin-discuss) welcomes general questions and discussions.

Merlin Labels
-------------

[Area/Emacs](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Area%2FEmacs): Related to Emacs

[Area/Vim](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Area%2FVim): Related to Vim

[Kind/Bug](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Kind%2FBug): This issue describes a problem

[Kind/Docs](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Kind%2FDocs): This issue describes a documentation change

[Kind/Feature-Request](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Kind%2FFeature-request): Solving this issue requires implementing a new feature

[Kind/To-discuss](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Kind%2FTo-discuss): Discussion needed to converge on a solution; often aesthetic. See mailing list for discussion

[Status/0-More-info-needed](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F0-More-info-needed): More information is needed before this issue can be triaged

[Status/0-Triage](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F0-Triage): This issue needs triaging

[Status/1-Acknowledged](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F1-Acknowledged): This issue has been triaged and is being investigated

[Status/2-Regression](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F2-Regression): Known workaround to be applied and tested

[Status/3-Fixed-need-test](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F3-Fixed-need-test): This issue has been fixed and needs checking

[Status/4-Fixed](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F4-Fixed): This issue has been fixed!

[Status/5-Awaiting-feedback](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/labels/Status%2F5-Awaiting-feedback): This issue requires feedback on a previous fix

You can see current areas of development in our [Merlin Project Roadmaps](https://github.com/ocaml/merlin/projects) that we keep up to date.

Contributing to Merlin
----------------------

Merlin needs your help and contributions!

### Reporting Issues

When you encounter an issue, please report it with as much detail as possible. A thorough bug report is always appreciated :)

Check that our issue database doesn't already include that problem/suggestion. You can click "subscribe" on issues to follow their progress and updates.

When reporting issues, please include:  
- steps to reproduce the problem, if possible with some code triggering the issue,  
- version of the tools you are using: operating system, editor, OCaml.

Try to be as specific as possible:  
- avoid generic phrasing such as "doesn't work", explain why it is not working (editor is freezing, you got an error message, the answer is not what was expected, ...)  
- include the content of error messages.

If it seems relevant, also include information about your development environment:  
- the Opam version and switch in use,  
- other toolchains involved (OCaml flavors, cygwin, C compiler, shell, ...),  
- how the editor was setup.

### Pull Requests

Found a bug and know how to fix it? Or have a feature you can implement directly? We appreciate pull requests to improve Merlin, and any significant fix should start life as an issue first.

### Documentation and wiki

Help is greatly appreciated, the wiki needs love.

If the wiki didn't cover a topic and you found out the answer, updating the page or pointing out the issue will be very useful for future users.

### Discussing with other Merlin users and contributors

Together with commenting on issues with direct feedback and relevant information, we use the [mailing list](https://lists.forge.ocamlcore.org/cgi-bin/listinfo/merlin-discuss) to discuss ideas and current designs/implementations. User input helps us to converge on solutions, especially those for aesthetic and user-oriented topics.

List of Contributors
--------------------

We would like to thank all people who contributed to Merlin.

Main collaborators:
* [Frédéric Bour](https://github.com/let-def), main developer
* [Thomas Refis](https://github.com/trefis), main developer
* [Gemma Gordon](https://github.com/GemmaG), project manager
* [Simon Castellan](https://github.com/asmanur), contributed the initial Emacs mode

Contributors:
* [Andrew Noyes](https://github.com/atn34)
* [Andrey Popp](https://github.com/andreypopp)
* [Anil Madhavapeddy](https://github.com/avsm)
* [Anton Bachin](https://github.com/aantron)
* [Armaël Guéneau](https://github.com/Armael)
* [Arthur Wendling](https://github.com/art-w)
* [Benjamin San Souci](https://github.com/bsansouci)
* [Bernhard Schommer](https://github.com/bschommer)
* [Bobby Priambodo](https://github.com/bobbypriambodo)
* [Bryan Phelps](https://github.com/bryphe)
* [Chris Konstad](https://github.com/chriskonstad)
* [Christopher Reichert](https://github.com/creichert)
* [Christophe Troestler](https://github.com/Chris00)
* [David Allsopp](https://github.com/dra27)
* [Fabian Hemmer](https://github.com/copy)
* [Fourchaux](https://github.com/Fourchaux)
* [Gabriel Scherer](https://github.com/gasche)
* [Geoff Gole](https://github.com/gsg)
* [Gerd Stolpmann](https://github.com/gerdstolpmann)
* [Gregory Nisbet](https://github.com/gregory-nisbet)
* [Jacob Bass](https://github.com/bassjacob)
* [Jacques-Pascal Deplaix](https://github.com/jpdeplaix)
* [Jah Rehders](https://github.com/sheijk)
* [Jason Staten](https://github.com/statianzo)
* [Jochen Bartl](https://github.com/verbosemode)
* [Jordan Walke](https://github.com/jordwalke)
* [Keigo Imai](https://github.com/keigoi)
* [Leandro Ostera](https://github.com/ostera)
* [Leo White](https://github.com/lpw25])
* [Madroach](https://github.com/madroach)
* [Malcolm Matalka](https://github.com/orbitz)
* [Marc Weber](https://github.com/MarcWeber)
* [Mario Rodas](https://github.com/marsam)
* [Markus Mottl](https://github.com/mmottl)
* [Milo Davis](https://github.com/MiloDavis)
* [Nick Borden](https://github.com/hcwndbyw)
* [Nicolás Ojeda Bar](https://github.com/nojb)
* [Olivier Andrieu](https://github.com/oandrieu)
* [Philipp Haselwarter](https://github.com/haselwarter)
* [Pierre Chambart](https://github.com/chambart)
* [Raman Varabets](https://github.com/cyberhuman)
* [Raphaël Proust](https://github.com/raphael-proust)
* [Ronan Le Hy](https://github.com/lehy-probayes) [(2)](https://github.com/lehy)
* [Rudi Grinberg](https://github.com/rgrinberg)
* [Steve Purcell](https://github.com/purcell)
* [Syohei Yoshida](https://github.com/syohex)
* ["tddsg"](https://github.com/tddsg)
* [Tomasz Kołodziejski](https://github.com/neojski)
* [Velichko Vsevolod](https://github.com/torkve)
* [Vincent / Twinside](https://github.com/Twinside)
* [Xavier Guérin](https://github.com/xguerin)
* [Ximin Luo](https://github.com/infinity0)
* [Yotam Barnoy](https://github.com/bluddy)

### Sponsoring and donations

We would like to thank [Jane Street](https://www.janestreet.com) for sponsoring and [OCaml Labs](https://github.com/ocamllabs) for providing support and management.

And many thanks to our [Bountysource](https://www.bountysource.com/teams/the-lambda-church/backers) backers.

### Other acknowledgements

Distribution and configuration:
* [Louis Gesbert](https://github.com/AltGr), [opam-user-setup](https://github.com/OCamlPro/opam-user-setup), out-of-the-box setup for Vim and Emacs
* [Edgar Aroutinian](https://github.com/fxfactorial), [ocaml-starterkit](https://github.com/fxfactorial/ocaml-starterkit), collection of tools for beginners in OCaml

Support for other editors:
* [Hackwaly](https://github.com/hackwaly), [Visual Studio Code](https://github.com/hackwaly/vscode-ocaml)
* [Luc Rocher](https://github.com/cynddl), [Sublime Text 3](https://github.com/cynddl/sublime-text-merlin)
* [Pieter Goetschalckx](https://github.com/314eter), [ocaml-merlin package for Atom](https://atom.io/packages/ocaml-merlin)
* various contributors, [nuclide package for Atom](https://nuclide.io/)
